
## Introduction
Bellabeat is a high-tech manufacturer of health-focused products for women. It was founded in 2013 by Urška Sršenand Sando Mur and has grown rapidly and quickly positioned itself as a tech-driven wellness company for women.Even though it is a successful small company, they have the potential to become a larger player in the global smart device market. Urška Sršen ,Bellabeat’s co-founder and Chief Creative Officer,used her background  as an artist to develop beautifully designed technology that informs and inspires women around the world .Sando Mur is a Mathematician and Bellabeat’s co-founder.He is also a key member of the Bellabeat executive team. Their line of merchandise include the Bellabeat app, Leaf,Time, Spring,and a Bellabeat membership. 


## Scenario
We,the Bellabeat marketing analytics team, have been asked to focus on one of Bellabeat’s products and analyze smart device data to gain insight into how consumers are using their smart devices. The insights we discover will then help guide marketing strategy for the company.

This case study will be done along the six steps for the data analysis process: ask,prepare, process, analyze, share, and act.R programming was used for this case study as it was easy to load the data, manipulate the data and get the visualisations.
### Ask

##### Business task
- Analyze the fitbit tracker data to gain insight,recognise patterns and trends and apply the same to Bellabeat products. 
- From the findings come up with recommendations for a marketing strategy that would  boost Bellabeat’s growth in the global smart device market.

##### Key stakeholders
Urška Sršen, Sando Mur and Bellabat executive team

### Prepare  
This dataset generated by respondents to a distributed survey via Amazon Mechanical Turk between 03.12.2016-05.12.2016. Thirty eligible Fitbit users consented to the submission of personal tracker data, including minute-level output for physical activity, heart rate, and sleep monitoring.

>ROCCC Analysis
- Reliability  and Originality- The data is from 30 FitBit users who consented to the submission of personal tracker data to a survey by Amazon Mechanical Turk
- Comprehensive - All though there are minute and hourly data fro various factors like intensity,calorie etc, the sample size is small and also include missing data.
- Current - Its not current .It was collected in 2016
- Cited - Unknown

>Limitations of the data
- The data was collected in 2016, so its old data.
- Some datasets have very less data to be considered for analysis.
- Theres no proper units for few fields.
- It lacks information about the participants i.e. their age, gender, location, working sector, etc.

### Process
- Firstly install all the necessary packages.

- Next import the required dataset. For my case study I have used the hourly data along with daily activity, met data and sleep data.

- Using glimpse() and str() functions get the details of the dataset like the number of rows and columns, name of columns and their data type.

- Use is.na() and duplicated() functions to check for NA values or duplicated values in the data set. Remove any if  found.
Example:

- It was also found that the date columns were in chr type.Change them into date time type and in some datasets the time and date field has also been separately.

- Additional columns like day of the week, worn for hours, wornfor minutes,worn all day were added to get better understanding of the data and to help with the analysis.
- Merging datasets can be done to get all data together but here i have used them seprately.

### Analysis
1. Getting the summary of the data to see the mean ,min and max values of the fields.
1. Plot a few graphs to identify patterns or trends in the data.
    - Sedentary minutes vs Day of the week 
    - Calories Vs Steps taken 
    - Calories Vs Distance 
    - Time asleep vs time spent in bed 
    - Distance coverd Vs day of the week 
    - Device worn Vs Day of the week 
    - Count Vs worn all day graph.

### Share
1. It was found that on a average a person walked 7638 steps and burnt 2304 calories.Also they wore the device for most part of the day.  

2. On a average a person slept for 7 hours and covered 20489 METs in a day.
3. It was found that tuesdays showed more participants being sedentary. This could be either because during week day people tend to work in one place and hasn't moved or because they have not worn the device.The max value for this field is 1440 mins i.e. a day. There is also a discrepency in the data where tuesdays and thrusdays have most records and other dyas of the week have missing data.
4. It can be observed that as steps taken increase so do the calories being burnt but there are a few data points where even though the steps taken were less the calories burnt were more. This mean that the very active distance makes a difference here.
5. In relation to sleep patterns,most people sleep for the entirety of the time they were in bed but on a few occasions that was not the case.
6. Most people tend to walk or run less on weekends when compard to weekdays.
7. Tuesday has the highest records for most of the fields so the device could have been worn most during mid week.
8. It was observed that only 53% of the people wore trackers all day long.

### Act
1.  Make the app more interactive where it encourages users to wear the device more and give appropriate responses or suggestions based on their activity.
2.  The Bellabeat products are innovative in the form of clips and necklaces ,so there's a good chance people will wear the device all throught the day.
3.  A scheme can be developed where the users who have completed a particular count of steps or similar milestones are given subscriptions or membership points.
4.  A free trial period could also be given to enhance popularity.
5.  As far as sedentary minutes is concerned a reminder could be set that after a time period of being idle, the user has to do some activity.






	




